#summary web.php recommended alternative frameworks.

= Alternative Frameworks =

You looked at web.php and didn't like what you saw. Or maybe you liked it, but the feature set didn't match your needs this time. That's alright and fine to us, and we do even like to tell you about the alternatives. We also feel that we should give credit to these alternatives as they have made our life a lot easier. We admit that we have taken the ideas from the other frameworks and built web.php on that. There isn't many original ideas in web.php - it's rather a collection of ideas taken from other projects that we liked.

== Zend Framework (http://framework.zend.com/) ==

  The leading open-source PHP framework has a flexible architecture that lets you easily build modern web applications and web services.

We might not have developed web.php in a first place, if we did like Zend Framework's front controller and view implementation. Unfortunately we didn't, but it definitely doesn't mean that you shouldn't check it out. It might be just what you are looking for. We are huge fans of Zend Framework and we think that Zend Framework has really raised a bar in reusable PHP class design. Zend Framework is also very loosely coupled and you can easily use the components in Zend Framework together with web.php. In fact we refuse to implement anything that has, in our opinion, a good implementation within Zend Framework. Zend Framework is currently the only library on which web.php has dependencies.

== web.py (http://webpy.org/) ==

  [http://webpy.org/ web.py] is a web framework for python that is as simple as it is powerful.

Well, it's more than clear, that web.php project has named after this Python project. web.php's design also resembles web.py in a certain places. So, if you are a Python programmer and are looking for something similar to web.php, web.py might be the way to go.

== Cake (http://www.cakephp.org/) ==

  [http://www.cakephp.org/ Cake] is a rapid development framework for PHP which uses commonly known design patterns like ActiveRecord, Association Data Mapping, Front Controller and MVC.

Cake is a reference in PHP web frameworks. It's big, complete and very active. It can be described as a full stack framework and it has support for all the parts in a mvc framework. If you like to get things done fast and are not interested in building your own framework using web.php, we recommend you to take a look at Cake.

== Symfony (http://www.symfony-project.com/) ==

  Based on the best practices of web development, thoroughly tried on several active websites, [http://www.symfony-project.com/ symfony] aims to speed up the creation and maintenance of web applications, and to replace the repetitive coding tasks by power, control and pleasure.

It's not fair to include Cake in this list if you don't also include Symfony. Symfony is a very active project, and it's really well documented. web.php's view and layout system is hugely inspired from Symfony's view and layout system. Symfony is a safe choice, and you won't be disappointed in it.