#summary web.php api documentation.
#sidebar API

=web.php API Documentation=

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

This is web.php API documentation.

=Functions=

==get==

get - Add a HTTP GET request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function

===Description===

||void *get* ( string _$path_, mixed _$func_ )||

===Parameters===

_path_

  ||A route on which request URL path is compared.||

_func_

  ||A function to execute when request URL path is matched to _$path_.||
  
===Examples===

====Example #1 Using get function to add routes====

{{{
// Add a GET route using an anonymous function
get('/hello/:name', function($name) { echo "Hello, $name!" });

// Add a GET route using a static method
get('/', 'Controller::index');

// Add a GET route using an instance method
get('/', 'Controller->index');
}}}

===Notes===

*Note:* This function is only used to collect the routes and the functions. By itself it does nothing, but the information collected is used with [dispatch()] and [forward()].

===See Also===

  * [API#post post()] - Add a HTTP POST request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.
  * [API#put put()] - Add a HTTP PUT request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.
  * [API#delete delete()] - Add a HTTP DELETE request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.
  * [API#route route()] - Add a any HTTP request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.

----

==post==

post - Add a HTTP POST request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function

===Description===

||void *post* ( string _$path_, mixed _$func_ )||

===Parameters===

_path_

  ||A route on which request URL path is compared.||

_func_

  ||A function to execute when request URL path is matched to _$path_.||

===Examples===

====Example #1 Using post function to add routes====

{{{
// Add a POST route using an anonymous function
post('/', function() { echo 'Hello, World!' });

// Add a POST route using a static method
post('/', 'Controller::index');

// Add a POST route using an instance method
post('/', 'Controller->index');
}}}

===Notes===

*Note:* This function is only used to collect the routes and the functions. By itself it does nothing, but the information collected is used with [dispatch()] and [forward()].

===See Also===

  * [API#get get()] - Add a HTTP GET request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.
  * [API#put put()] - Add a HTTP PUT request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.
  * [API#delete delete()] - Add a HTTP DELETE request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.
  * [API#route route()] - Add a any HTTP request route to routes array with specific path and the controller function.